1.What is React? what are the Usage?

React is a open source javascript library. 
It allows to build a user interfaces specifically.
we can do make single page application. 

usage
React enable developers to create web application that can change your data without reloading your page.
It works only on user interfaces in the application.
React components are reusable.
React is more faster than other library. 

2.How React works?

React creates a virtual DOM. When state changes in a component it firstly runs a “diffing” algorithm, which identifies what has changed in the virtual DOM. The second step is reconciliation, where it updates the DOM with the results of diff. 

3.What are the features of React?

It uses VirtualDOM instead of RealDOM considering that RealDOM manipulations are expensive.
Supports server-side rendering.
Uses reusable/composable UI components
Follows Unidirectional data flow or data binding.(It is also known as one-way data flow, which means the data has one, and only one way to be transferred to other parts of the application.)
High Performance
JSX makes code easy to read and write.

4.What are the advantages of React?

The main Advantage od react js is scalable, simple and fast.
Easy to Learn and Use.
It increases the application’s performance
It can be conveniently used on the client as well as server side

what are the differences between Reactjs and Angular?
React 
React is a open source javascript library.
React updates its virtual DOM
React follow unidirectional data flow.
React is good for developing web aplliication which contains simple mathamatical operations.
React supports jsx syntax.

Angular
Angular is a open source javascript framework.
Angular directly updates the real DOM.
Angular follow two directional data flow.
Angular is good for developing industrial application which contains more mathamatical operations.
Angular supports type script syntax.
   

5.What are the limitations of React?

React is just a library, not a full-blown framework
Its library is very large and takes time to understand
It can be little difficult for the novice programmers to understand
Coding gets complex as it uses inline templating and JSX

6.What is Jsx?

Jsx stands for javascript XML.
Jsx is an extention of the javascript language and is to translate regular javascript at runtime.
We will use Babel tool for coversion.
We will develop React Applications by using JSX.
The javascript expression in jsx inside the curly braces {}.

7.Why can’t browsers read JSX?

Browsers cannot read JSX directly because they can only understand JavaScript objects, and JSX is not a regular JavaScript object. 
Thus, we need to transform the JSX file into a JavaScript object using transpilers like Babel and then pass it to the browser.

8.What is the virtual DOM?

Virtual DOM is a lightweight JavaScript object.
It is simply a copy of the real DOM
Virtual Dom updates faster.
Virtual Dom Can’t directly update HTML
DOM manipulation is very easy
No memory wastage

9.Explain the purpose of render() in React.

Each React component must have a render() mandatorily. 
It returns a single React element which is the representation of the native DOM component.
Html element inside render() must be enclosed inside as enclosing tag like <div>,<group>,<form> etc.
should be a pure function.  

10.What is the difference between Element and Component?

Element 
An element is a plain JavaScript object which describes the component state and DOM node, and its desired properties.
It only holds information about the component type, its properties, and any child elements inside it.
It is immutable.
We cannot apply any methods on elements.

Component
A component is the core building block of React application. It is a class or function which accepts an input and returns a React element.
It can contain state and props and has access to the React lifecycle methods.
It is mutable.
We can apply any methods on elements.

11.What are the components in React?

There are three components in react they are 
1.class component 
2.Functional component
3.pure component 

12.What are Pure Components?

Pure components are the simplest and fastest components which can be written. They can replace any component which only has a render(). 
These components enhance the simplicity of the code and performance of the application.

13.Why state?

React components has a built-in state object. The state object is where you store property values that belongs to the component. When the state object changes, the component re-renders.

14.What is state in React?

State is predefined object in react js.
State holds the data and information about the component.
State is mutable unlike the props and create dynamic and interactive components.
we can create state only inside the class component.
The state in a component can change over time, and whenever it changes, the component re-renders.
Example Class component

15.What are props in React?

Pros stands for Properties in react js.
React props are like function arguments in javaScript and attributes in HTML.
To pass the data form parent component to child component we can use props.
A child component can never send a prop back to the parent component.
Props are immutable. Example Function Component

16.What is the difference between state and props?

State
State can be changed.
State is mutable.
State holds information about the components.
State cannot be accessed by child components.
The State cannot make components reusable.

Props
Props are read-only.
Props are immutable.
Props allow you to pass data from one component to other components as an argument.
Props can be accessed by the child component.
Props make components reusable.

17.explain map() function in reactjs

The map() function is used to iterate over an array and manipulate or change data items. In React, the map() function is most commonly used for rendering a list of data to the DOM.


18.How do you update the state of a component?

We can update the State of a component using this.setState() function.
It only adds changes to the original State.

19.How do you pass value from parent component to child components?

Props are used to pass the value from parent component to child component.

20.What are the differences between class and functional components?

Class Component
Can hold or manage state
Complex as compared to the stateless component
Can work with all lifecycle methods
Can be reused

Functional Component
Cannot hold or manage state
Simple and easy to understand
Does not work with any lifecycle method
Cannot be reused

21.What are the different phases of component lifecycle?

Mounting Phase - These methods are called in the following order when an instance of a component is being created and inserted into the DOM
constructor()
static getDerivedStateFromProps()
render()
componentDidMount()

Updating Phase - An update can be caused by changes to props or state. These methods are called in the following order when a component is being re-rendered
static getDerivedStateFromProps()
shouldComponentUpdate()
render()
getSnapshotBeforeUpdate()
componentDidUpdate()

Unmounting Phase - This method is called when a component is being removed from the DOM:
componentWillUnmount()

22.How to write comments in React?

In React, we can write comments in two ways:
Single Line Comments
We can write comments as /* Block Comments */ with curly braces: {/* Single Line comment */}  

Multiline Comments
If we want to comment more that one line, we can do this as  
{ /*  
   Multi 
   line 
   comment 
*/ }    

23.What is an event in React?

An event is an action which triggers as a result of the user action or system generated event like a mouse click, loading of a web page, pressing a key, window resizes, etc. 
In React, the event handling system is very similar to handling events in DOM elements.
The React event handling system is known as Synthetic Event,some sysntax differents
React events are named as camelCase instead of lowercase.
With JSX, a function is passed as the event handler instead of a string.

24.When to use a Class Component over a Function Component?

If the component needs state or lifecycle methods then use class component otherwise use function component.

25.What are synthetic events in React?

SyntheticEvent is a cross-browser wrapper around the browser's native event.
Synthetic events combine the response of different browser's native events into one API, ensuring that the events are consistent across different browsers.

26.What is an arrow function and how is it used in React?

An arrow function is a short way of writing a function in React.
It is unnecessary to bind ‘this’ inside the constructor when using an arrow function. 
This prevents bugs caused by the use of ‘this’ in React callbacks.

27.Differentiate between stateless and stateful components.

Stateless Component
The stateless components do not hold or manage state.
It does not contain the knowledge of past, current, and possible future state changes.
It is also known as a functional component.
It does not work with any lifecycle method of React.

Stateful Component
The stateful components can hold or manage state.
It can contain the knowledge of past, current, and possible future changes in state.
It is also known as a class component.
It can work with all lifecycle method of React.


28.Explain the Lists in React.

Lists are used to display data in an ordered format. 
In React, Lists can be created in a similar way as we create it in JavaScript. 
We can traverse the elements of the list using the map() function.

29.Why is there a need for using keys in Lists?

Keys are very important in lists for the following reasons:

A key is a unique identifier and it is used to identify which items have changed, been updated or deleted from the lists
It also helps to determine which components need to be re-rendered instead of re-rendering all the components every time. 
Therefore, it increases performance, as only the updated components are re-rendered

30.What are forms in React?

React employs forms to enable users to interact with web applications.

Using forms, users can interact with the application and enter the required information whenever needed. 
Form contain certain elements, such as text fields, buttons, checkboxes, radio buttons, etc.
Forms are used for many different tasks such as user authentication, searching, filtering, indexing, etc.

31.What do you know about controlled and uncontrolled components?

Controlled component
It does not maintain its internal state.
Here, data is controlled by the parent component.
It accepts its current value as a prop.
It allows validation control.

Uncontrolled component
It maintains its internal states.
Here, data is controlled by the DOM itself.
It uses a ref for their current values.
It does not allow validation control.

32.Why is it necessary to start component names with a capital letter?

In React, it is necessary to start component names with a capital letter. 
If we start the component name with lower case, it will throw an error as an unrecognized tag. 
It is because, in JSX, lower case tag names are considered as HTML tags.

33.How do you create a React app?

npx create-react-app my-app
cd my-app
npm start
