1.What is Redux?

Redux is an open-source JavaScript library for managing application state.
It is a predictable state container for JavaScript applications and is used for the entire applications state management.
It is most commonly used with libraries such as React or Angular for building user interfaces.
It is lightweight.

2.What are the three principles that Redux follows?

Redux can be described in three basic principles
Single-Source of Truth  - The state of your whole application is stored in an object tree, called Store.
State is Read-Only	- The only way to change the state is to dispatch an Action, an object describing what happened.
Changes are made with Pure Functions - To specify how the state tree is transformed by actions, you write pure Reducers.

3.List down the components of Redux.

Actions -  It’s an object that describes what happened.
Reducers - It is a place to determine how the state will change.
Store - State/ Object tree of the entire application is saved in the Store.
View - Simply displays the data provided by the Store.

4.Explain the role of Reducer.

Reducer are pure fucntions which take the previous state of the app and return a new state based on the action passed to it.

5.What is the significance of Store in Redux?

A store is an object tree that holds the entire application state.

6.How are Actions defined in Redux?

Actions are plain JavaScript objects and they must have a type property to indicate the type of action to be carried out. 
They must also have a payload that contains the information that should be worked on by the action.
Actions are sent using store.dispatch() method.

7.What is the Flux?

It is an application design model used as a substitute for the more traditional MVC outline. 
It is not a framework but a new type of structural design that complements React and the notion of Unidirectional Data Flow.

8.How is Redux different from Flux?

Redux 
Single Store
Redux is a container for JavaScript apps.
Redux is the first choice for web developers because it offers live code editing.

Flux
Multiple Store
Flux is a container for application state and logic that are registered to callbacks
Flux supports actions that are simple JavaScript objects.

9.What are the advantages of Redux?

Single-Source of Truth
Predictable States
Easy to Maintain
Reusable Code
No need to uplift State
Easy to Debug

10.How Redux Works - Redux Workflow?

Redux allows you to manage the state of the application using single source of truth, called Store, Any Component can directly access the state from the Store using Subscribe method.
Let's understand the Redux workflow step by step:

Store - Redux offers a solution of storing all your application's state at one place, called store.
Dispatch - Actions can be dispatch based on the Event (e.g. OnClick, OnChange, etc).
Reducers - Reducers are the pure functions which takes the previous state and an action, and return the next state. (Always return new state objects, instead of mutating the previous state).
Subscribe - Any components can easily subscribe to store.
In Redux, components don't communicate directly with each other, but rather all state changes must go through the single source of truth, the store.

11.What is Dispatch?

Dispatch is a method which triggers action with type and payload to Reducer.

12.What is Provider?

The Provider is a component that has a reference to the Store and provides the data from the Store to the component it wraps.

13.What is Connect?

Connect is a function communicates with the Provider.

14.How to install Redux?

Redux is available as a package on NPM.
npm i redux
OR
npm install redux
OR
npm install redux --save

